Reading this documentation
--------------------------

Before you start venturing into a complete understanding of Helix – and
particularly the reasoning behind it – it is a good idea to have a
reasonable experience in developing in ASP.NET and in Sitecore. Although
the Habitat example site works well as an end-to-end example of a
Sitecore implementation – and as such is a good supplement to the
Sitecore developer training – the added intricacies of the conventions
can add to an increased learning curve of Sitecore.

However, if you are new to Sitecore and are determined to understand
more about Habitat and Helix, please understand that although Sitecore
is not generally conceived as hard to get started with, there are an
incredible number of opportunities and possibilities to make your new
journey with Sitecore both fun, interesting and sometimes challenging.
Treat Helix and Habitat as just another one of these great
opportunities.

Helix and this documentation do not define conventions or principles for
all aspects of ASP.NET or Sitecore, but rather focus on the macro
architecture conventions in Sitecore development. This means that you
find that many of the traditional aspects of software development such
as object-oriented architecture and ASP.NET MVC conventions are not
mentioned in this document. In other words, despite the conventions and
recommended practices in this document Helix still gives you great
freedom in your choice of tools and general development practices.

Although the overall Helix conventions and principles can be applied to
ASP.NET Web Forms, this document assumes the use of ASP.NET MVC with
Sitecore. If you are currently working in ASP.NET Web Forms, the
adoption of Helix might be an appropriate excuse to switch to ASP.NET
MVC, as it is more future-proof and generally recommended for Sitecore
development.

Although Helix is a set of recommended principles and conventions from
Sitecore itself, it is not a set of rules. Development teams, businesses
and requirements are different. Although there are great benefits to be
gained from aligning to a defined set of conventions, there is also a
need for pragmatism. The advice is to generally read all development
conventions, patterns and principles – including Helix – with a critical
mindset and apply them in the context of your own business, team and
solution.