What is Helix and Habitat?
--------------------------

*Helix* is a set of overall design principles and conventions for Sitecore
development. 

*Habitat* is a real Sitecore project implemented on the Sitecore
Experience Platform using Helix. It is an example that allows developers
to see how Helix is applied and lets developers experience a project
based on these principles. It also provides an excellent basis on which
to develop additional modules and extend existing ones. In addition, it
saves the developer from having to create these modules from scratch.
Throughout this document is a series of examples of how Habitat
implements the described principles and conventions.

.. admonition:: Habitat Example 

    Throughout the Helix documentation you will find various examples from
    Habitat.

    You can find the the source code on GitHub: http://github.com/sitecore/habitat

Fuelling fast paced Sitecore development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Still not sure? Let’s try an example with racing cars.

When you design a racing car, there are some good things to have. For
example, the shape of the car affects wind resistance so you choose the
right shape to minimise drag. The engine efficiency affects the amount
of fuel you need and thus weight so you design efficiently and lightly
to maximise acceleration. To achieve the fastest car, you apply the
*overall* *design principles*.

If you are a Formula One racing team, you have to apply these *overall*
*design principles* within the bounds of the Formula One rules for car
length, weight, size of engine, spoilers, etc. This is like Helix
because you have taken some *overall* *design principles* and applied
them to a particular type of racing car – in this case a Formula One
racing car. The *overall* *design principles* are good for any type of
racing car in any race but only the *overall* *design principles* used
with Formula One are correct for a Formula One race.

*Habitat* is like the Formula One car itself. It is an example of an F1
Car (*Habitat*) you can race around a track that follows *overall*
*design principles* for Formula One (Helix). The difference between
Formula One and Sitecore is that Formula One does not provide the racing
teams with an example car to give all the racing teams a head start,
whereas Sitecore does.

Why be interested at all in Helix or Habitat?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Helix provide a set of guidelines for your Sitecore projects. The
*Habitat* example provides you with a pre-built and tested set of common
modules that you can use as an inspiration to your project. Both improve
the efficiency of your projects, reduce costs and time to market. As
more and more people and organisations adopt the Helix conventions and
principles, it will become a Sitecore standard. This means that people
who are familiar with the conventions or the Habitat example will be
able to work more easily on other convention-based projects with minimal
training. It will be easier for Sitecore Product Support to understand
projects built using the conventions, enabling them to resolve issues
more quickly. Sitecore will test its software using the conventions so
any compatible project that has been implemented for a customer will be
more reliable. And since Sitecore will test its software using the
conventions, Sitecore will be able to provide better guidance on how to
update and upgrade existing Sitecore projects when new versions and new
products are released.

Still need a car example? A race engineer has been working for an F1
team and decides to transfer to another F1 team. The race engineer is
already familiar with Formula One (Helix). She recognises just about
everything on the car (*Habitat*). There are a few minor differences for
which she will need some training but those small differences do not
stop her opening her bag of wrenches and getting to work right away.